The ESP8266 is a programmable chip similar to the Arduino microcontrollers but it can be easily connected to a WiFi network.
This guide helps you to get started with your first Internet-of-Things (IoT) project: a crisp OLED display shows
weather information on several side-scrolling screens.

In the first part of the book we cover how to setup the development environment. Summaries at the end of each chapter
help to understand what has been accomplished. Info boxes explain important expressions and technologies to beginners.

New! In a second part basic building blocks for programming the ESP8266 are explained: the structure of a Arduino
sketch with the setup() and loop() functions, how to use the serial console, digitalRead and digitalWrite, interrupts
and analogRead. Then we cover how to connect to a WiFi network and how to load data from a HTTP web server.
Six exercises help to get practical experience with the topic: controlling the LED on the NodeMCU module, reading
out the state of the FLASH button with interrupts, reading the current value of the supply voltage and accessing a
web server over HTTPS and verifying its authenticity with a SHA1 fingerprint. The exercises and their solutions are
available on Github: you start solving the tasks by filling in missing parts. Should you get stuck or you want to have
a look at an alternative solution just open the solution sketch!

After this introduction in ESP8266 programming we will get our first big project running: the ESP8266 WeatherStation!
I will explain step-by-step what you will have to do to display the current weather in your area and a 3 day forecast.

In the last part of the book three more projects are introduced: a plane spotting tool which fetches information from
the internet about the planes that are above your head, a world clock which displays times in various timezones together
with beautiful icons. Do you want to measure temperature and humidity outside your house? The ClimateNode project explains
how to collect data from a second ESP8266, store it in the cloud and display it in an additional frame on your WeatherStation.

This book is for beginners and ambitious programmers alike, but a basic understanding of programming is certainly helpful.
In order to get started the following hardware is recommended: a ESP8266 NodeMCU V1.0, several jumper wires, a USB cable,
a SSD1306 0.96" OLED display and (optional) a DHT11 or DHT22 temperature/ humidity sensor. These components are also
available as Starter Kit in the Amazon US Store. Just search for "ESP8266 IoT Starter Kit with OLED display for Arduino IDE".
If you live outside the US you can also buy the starter kit from the author on his site: blog.squix.org

Here are the chapters of the book:

Introduction

Required Hardware
ESP8266 Module
OLED Display
Wires & Cables

Tool Setup
Download and Install the Serial Driver
The Arduino IDE
Install the ESP8266 tool chain
Open the Arduino IDE
Selecting the Correct Board
Setting the Correct Port
Testing the Setup: WiFi Scanner
Summary

ESP8266 Programming Basics
Preparation
The Arduino Sketch
Hello World: The serial console
Input/ Output: GPIO pins
Interrupts
Measuring analog signals
WiFi
HTTP

The ESP8266 WeatherStation
Installing the libraries
Open the Weather Station Example
Getting the Wunderground API Key
Configuring the Weather Station
Connecting the Hardware
First Run
Summary

Collecting and Displaying Local Data
The Climate Node Setup
Thingspeak Setup
Programming the Climate Node
Displaying the data on the WeatherStation

More Projects
The ESP8266 PlaneSpotter
The ESP8266 WorldClock
